In this video I'll explain one of the VPN features provided by the NSX edge layer to VPN how the purpose
of Alair to VPN is to provide a secure layer 2 connection between sites over some sort of public network.
Well talk about Layer 2 VPN IP addressing as well and how we can figure each end of the VPN tunnel and
we'll talk about the client server architecture utilized by the Lehre to VPN.
Now way back in the old days we used to use a lot of private point to point circuits like ti ones the
different types of VPN that we now have available can help to provide a more cost effective way to create
a private connection over a public network.
Without those dedicated leased lines.
So one of the types of VPN supported by the NSX is the layer to VPN.
There's two other types of VPN.
The layer 3 IPs like VPN and the SSL VPN plus that we'll look at an other lessons.
But for now we're going to focus purely on the Lehre to VPN and this is used to extend a layer to network.
So let's take a look and an example here we have two virtual machines.
VM one nvm two.
And these virtual machines are on the same network.
They're on the 10 1 1 network and we want to keep them on the same network even though they're physically
separated.
We want to extend our layer to network across the Internet.
In this case so what we need to do is number one create an NSX and gateway at the local site and set
it up as a layer to VPN server and we'll connect and interface to the logical switch that our virtual
machine is connected to.
So this is the layer to network that we want to span over the Internet to the remote site.
So we'll also connect the NSX edge to a port that's going to give it access to the Internet.
Right.
We'll connect an interface to a port group on a distributed switch and the distributed switch has a
physical adapter called a VM Nic.
That's the little black square that you see there.
So that's how my NSX edge gets access to the physical network.
And as traffic is leaving this host it's secured in a VPN tunnel and it's headed for our lair to VPN
client and the Lehre to VPN client is an NSX agit the remote location and this edge also has two interfaces.
One of them hooked up to the internet via a distributed port group on Ivey's for a distributed switch
and another interface connecting to that logical switch.
And that same Alair to network that we had at the local site.
And by the way at the remote site we don't actually even need a full NSX deployment.
We need a full and a sex deployment at the server site.
But at the remote site we can deploy the edge as a standalone virtual machine and utilize it to provide
a layer to VPN client and port 443 is used for this traffic by default.
Now let's talk about another use case.
Maybe we have some services in our network and some services in the cloud.
You know this could even be temporary in nature like maybe every year around Christmas.
My web servers get beat up so I can solve that by either buying more hardware or maybe I could just
use a third party cloud service provider and get some sleep and memory resources from that.
And once Christmas is over we going to shut it down.
Right.
This is something called Cloud bursting.
Well we know we're going to have temporary changes in workload and we utilize a public cloud rather
than purchasing hardware.
So again in this case will deploy an NSX outage at the local site we'll connect it to the network that
my virtual machine is connected to we're connected to a distributed port group and that distributed
switch will have a physical adapter a VM Nic connects us eventually to the Internet.
And we'll establish a layer to VPN tunnel to that public cloud provider.
So now we have to network that spans our environment goes over the Internet and can hit virtual machines
in the exact same layer to network on the public cloud.
There will also have to be and then the sex ads deployed the public cloud side as well.
And that will act as our leverage to VPN client now an NSX 6.1 or later a trunk interface is supported
on the NSX edge and this allows us to create multiple sub interfaces that can each identify one specific
LAN or VX land each.
And this will give us the ability just like any other trunk port to carry multiple Lehre to networks
over a single interface.
So you'll create one interface as a virtual Nic on the NSX edge and you're created as a trunk port.
And what you can then do is create multiple sub interfaces each of which is unique to a particular VPN
or VX LAN and connect those sub interfaces to our VPN or via excellent backed groups.
We can support up to 200 sub interfaces on a single NSX atch.
So in review Alair to VPN is utilized to span a layer to network across some geographic distance or
across some untrusted network.
We can use an NSX adj to stretch either a VPN or VX that network across these untrusted networks.
We'll have to have an NSX edge deployed at each site and these NSX edges will have a client server relationship.
There's no specific MT view latency or bandwidth requirements.
And at the client site again we can deploy in a sex edge in standalone mode.
We do not need a full and OSX deployment at the client location.